[#anchor]####OpenSource Security Working Group Agenda

[#anchor-1]####May 20, 2022

Moderator: Suse

Next Meeting Date: Jun 17, 2022

Next Meeting Moderator: Red Hat

Github:
https://github.com/Open-Security-Working-Group[_https://github.com/Open-Security-Working-Group_]

Communication Channel (CaC):
https://gitter.im/Compliance-As-Code-The/content[_https://gitter.im/Compliance-As-Code-The/content_]

Agenda:

* Group(s) check-in
* June is coming fast, would like to have a draft, but need everyone’s
input.

[#anchor-2]####Apr 22, 2022

Moderator: Canonical (If unable, Red Hat can cover it)

Next Meeting Date: May 20th, 2022

Next Meeting Moderator: Suse

Github:
https://github.com/Open-Security-Working-Group[_https://github.com/Open-Security-Working-Group_]

Communication Channel (CaC):
https://gitter.im/Compliance-As-Code-The/content[_https://gitter.im/Compliance-As-Code-The/content_]

Agenda:

* Red Hat will present initial work on white papers for discussion: Both
Documents have been added to the github (see Below)
** {blank}
+
____
https://github.com/Open-Security-Working-Group/Meeting-Notes/find/main[_https://github.com/Open-Security-Working-Group/Meeting-Notes/find/main_]
____
* Red Hat would like to open discussion on each initial doc for feedback
and to brainstorm additions/changes/recommendations for each document.
* Notes/Discussion: (Enter Below)

[#anchor-3]####Mar 18, 2022

Moderator: [line-through]*Canonical* (Blaine did as they had conflict)

Next Meeting Date: 03/18/22

Next Meeting Moderator: Canonical

Github:
https://github.com/Open-Security-Working-Group[_https://github.com/Open-Security-Working-Group_]

Communication Channel (CaC):
https://gitter.im/Compliance-As-Code-The/content[_https://gitter.im/Compliance-As-Code-The/content_]

Agenda:

* Group Overview: Working out ways we can provide collective guidance
for DISA (hardened images) on OS and Container Security
** {blank}
+
____
Need to get names of group member participants from Suse/Canonical
____
* Need to get the working groups members connected so they can start
communicating.
** {blank}
+
____
What is a hardened image
____
*** RH (Ash Westbrook) - wanted to be as agnostic as possible
*** Do we check on install or continuously?
**** {blank}
+
____
Config vs monitoring and drift
____
**** {blank}
+
____
How to adapt to changing standards
____
***** Ex disable unpriv ebpf
**** {blank}
+
____
? What are we doing to not reinvent what is in NIST control lists?
____
***** New, missed, things we care about?
***** Take and target the focus on the NIST controls
****** {blank}
+
____
Do we directly reference the material or ignore it?
____
******* We should reference and relate
****** {blank}
+
____
Identify the “I don’t think this does what you think it does”
____
****** {blank}
+
____
Identify the the blindspots around these controls
____
**** {blank}
+
____
NIST and DISA’s implementation of the controls - one size fits all
doesn’t really work - important for us to divide out for where they are
employed.
____
***** Many things in the STIGS that are blindly deployed that are not
applicable
*** Location and workload type should have guidance
** {blank}
+
____
Container Security
____
*** Two types - container image or runtimes or both?
*** How much overlap will there be with the hardened linux? (OS vs
containers)
**** {blank}
+
____
Focus on what the 3 of us have in common - the theory and rules should
be roughly the same.
____
**** {blank}
+
____
Concentrating on security best practices
____
***** Cover overlap between the 3
***** Environment
***** Where deployed vs how deployed
***** Specific implementation
***** Auditing
*** What is the scope -
**** {blank}
+
____
Narrowly focusing on the actions performed on building or focusing on
scanning when container is pulled? Or are we extending it to the process
to have continuous improvement of “securing” it.
____
***** Is this 1 Whitepaper or many?
***** What should be done initially, and then how do you handle
configuration drift? How do you maintain compliance?
***** Initial - how to do it on standup
***** Later - how to maintain and daily runtime maintenance of security
***** We want to call out and help to set the Standard for what the
community adopts and expects.
***** Scope - setting and accepting the risks of the source into
creating the image? We have set the bar - where you get the source of
the image and work your way out. (this seems to be the right path to
take). Start with the assumption and progress from there.
***** We need to set the principles, make sure the source is trusted,
and that it is aligned with the end-goal principles from the beginning.
** {blank}
+
____
Goal is to have initial whitepaper set by June
____
* Need to have specific guidance for containers and STIG (hardening)
that makes sense for deployment
** {blank}
+
____
Containers are not a General Purpose Operating System (GPOS)
____
*** Some are technical powerhouses trying to deploy
*** Others are smaller, need security, but need help with the execution
and deployment to do it right
**** {blank}
+
____
What do I do first?
____
**** {blank}
+
____
Where do I start
____
**** {blank}
+
____
They have been underserved.
____
* Concerns to create the image that security is something that is just
“the press of the button”
** {blank}
+
____
Hardening is more than just settings
____
** {blank}
+
____
How do you know what should be allowed vs forbidden? How do they know
that it is working correctly?
____
*** Need to keep focus on the complexity of the idea, help to point to
where to find help
*** This could be a large effort to meet all the concerns - we need to
determine the standard and provide the guidance to what the standard
should be.
**** {blank}
+
____
Scaffolding the assistance should be up to the companies and partners to
provide the applications
____
** {blank}
+
____
Linus is based on modules or types of granularity
____
*** The steps of hardening depend on the types and kinds of packages you
have installed
*** What is the base, maybe create a modular standard for different
types of deployments.
**** {blank}
+
____
Could the packages provide hardening guidance if they are installed
____
**** {blank}
+
____
Create a technical standard that brings in the hardening recommendations
as the packages, or workloads are installed? (may be technical
implementation)
____
***** Focus on standard across the board
****** {blank}
+
____
FIPS, root, example may be too much minutiae
____
*** Focus on our recommendations on how we should harden secure a
containerized workload
** {blank}
+
____
Theories around fundamentals
____
* AI: Blaine will send and email with the names we have so far to help
lead the working groups from each company, will start to connect them so
they can start working together offline in between monthly sessions.
* Workgroup Updates
** {blank}
+
____
Will start working and collaborating.
____

[#anchor-4]####Feb 18, 2022

Moderator: Steering Committee

Next Meeting Date: 03/18/22

Next Meeting Moderator: Canonical

Github:
https://github.com/Open-Security-Working-Group[_https://github.com/Open-Security-Working-Group_]

Communication Channel (CaC):
https://gitter.im/Compliance-As-Code-The/content[_https://gitter.im/Compliance-As-Code-The/content_]

Agenda:

* Welcome, guidance, housekeeping
** {blank}
+
____
Collaboration space:
____
** {blank}
+
____
What we need…
____
** {blank}
+
____
Rotating Moderation (alphabetical by company)
____
* Introduction of WG Topics
** {blank}
+
____
“What makes Linux hardened (OS)?”
____
** {blank}
+
____
“What is a hardened container?”
____
* Notes:
** {blank}
+
____
Introduction,housekeeping
____
** {blank}
+
____
Decisions: Working groups work async (collab in space between meetings)
and then update the working group in the monthly meeting. Goal date of
Jul 1, 2022 to have a publishable collaborative white paper available to
the community.
____
** {blank}
+
____
Questions:
____
*** Need to see representatives from CIS/DISA/others. Can we see more of
their contributions?
**** {blank}
+
____
This is the goal - they will provide more once they see we have valuable
information to start with. They want to see that we are invested, and
providing targeted advice, valuable opinions.
____
*** Thinking about upstream projects (like Compliance as Code) - need to
know how it relates to the standing of the standards by DISA.
**** {blank}
+
____
One of the projects that could benefit from this work.
____
**** {blank}
+
____
Add in specific certification issues - to drive easier mapping and
contributions that meet the needs of meeting the certifications and
profile requirements.
____
** {blank}
+
____
Who will drive/lead the working groups? (Take home AI - with first
collaboration sessions to set. Group leaders emailed to Blaine/Amy by
end of next week (Feb 25)) - at least one person per company and be
willing to work in the CaC workspace where needed.
____
** {blank}
+
____
DISA/etc will not join right away - may we think from different PoV -
each vendor to ask specific set of questions to understand our clients
needs? When we know these needs, then we can know what the goals of the
future workshops should be?
____
*** Agreed - we share in a way that allows us to collab
*** Think about sufficiency - are we fully or partially supporting it?
How do we know when we are compliant/complete? (CaC application)
*** Customers are asking us for help “what does hardening mean?” - STIG
is very long and hard to understand and does it fully protect? Or just a
niche environment? Other options are the more generic (guidelines) of
the
https://www.bsi.bund.de/EN/TheBSI/BSIAct/bsiact_node.html;jsessionid=4358FF4E94D8B745B57481309AB89662.internet472[_BSI
(german standards)_] - how do you secure an IT landscape, and is
modularized.
**** {blank}
+
____
Refine over time
____
**** {blank}
+
____
Be able to answer the right questions over the right topics
____
**** {blank}
+
____
Needs to be a top-down approach - and how to get comprehensive approach
(question/answer approach)
____
* AIs:
** {blank}
+
____
Fill in working group members (email to Blaine Stone or
mailto:afarley@redhat.com[_Amy Farley_] by end of next week (Feb 25))
____
** {blank}
+
____
Set the working group leaders from each of the vendors, (email to Blaine
Stone or mailto:afarley@redhat.com[_Amy Farley_] by end of next week
(Feb 25))
____
*** Working groups encouraged to start working together by March 4th,
2022.(email to Blaine Stone or Amy Farley by end of next week (Feb 25))
*** (email to Blaine Stone or Amy Farley by end of next week (Feb 25))
*** 

[#anchor-5]####Steering Committee:

[cols=",,,",]
|===
|Company |Contributor |Role |Email
|Canonical |Mossimo | |
|Red Hat |Amy Farley |Product Manager - Security |afarley@redhat.com
|Red Hat |Andrea Hall | |ahall@redhat.com
|SUSE |Blaine Stone | |blaine.stone@suse.com
| | | |
|===

[#anchor-6]####Contributors: (Working Group Leaders will have ** by name
and bold focus)

[cols=",,,,",]
|===
|Company |Contributor |Role |Topic Focus (OS/Container/Both) |Email

|Canonical | | | |

|Red Hat |mailto:mhaicman@redhat.com[_Marek Haicman_] |Product Owner -
Compliance |Both |mhaicman@redhat.com

|Red Hat | | | |

|SUSE | | | |

|Red Hat |*Ian Tewksbury*** |Senior Principal Architect |Containers
|itewk@redhat.com

|Red Hat |Gus Parvin |Principal Software Engineer |Containers
|gparvin@redhat.com

|Red Hat |Kevin O'Donnell |Senior Principal Architect |Both
|kodonnel@redhat.com

|Red Hat |Kenny Peeples |Principal Architect |Both |kpeeples@redhat.com

|Red Hat |Trevor Bryant |Solution Architect |Both
|trevorbryant@redhat.com

|Red Hat |Joshua Loscar |Senior Technical Account Manager |Both
|jloscar@redhat.com

|Red Hat |*Mark Salowitz*** |Secure Infrastructure Architect |Linux
|msalowit@redhat.com

|Red Hat |Steven Grubb |Senior Principal Software Engineer |Both
|sgrubb@redhat.com

|Red Hat |Ash Westbrook |Senior Field Product Manager |Both
|awestbro@redhat.com
|===

[#anchor-7]####Companies/Moderation Rotation

[cols=",",]
|===
|*Company* |*Moderation (move * down after each meeting)*
|Canonical |Mar 18, 2022
|CIS |
|DISA |
|Red Hat |
|SUSE |
|===
